# Matrix Masternodes

Yeah, everyone wants to have a Matrix masternode.

## When masternode?

No kidding, with "When more exchanges", it's a really really frequent question.

No ETA Yet.
Masternodes are still at early developpment stage, no features nor requirements are announced yet.

## What are the requirements for being a masternode?

A Matrix masternode should reach a computing power of 1000TPS and make a deposit of 10,000 MANs. Besides, it needs to support RPC, and provide mining or other services

## Can you anticipate the ROI for Masternode?

Matrix’s ROI plan is based on the following model:

1. The remaining 40%*1billion tokens will be distributed among miners verifiers and AI computing power contributors, with the proportion of 25%:20%:50%. 

2. The last 5% will be used as rewards for Matrix community, and distributed according to community votes. This distribution ratio is just a temporary proposal by Matrix Dev team, and will need to gain a consensus from the whole community to be go into effect. We plan to make a distribution proposal every 6 months, and initiate a voting activity across the community. If no consensus is gained, the previous plan will be used again. And, we will switch to another one when possible.
 
3. PoW is based on the 21 masternodes randomly selected. Each masternode will get a 10% percent of the average mining rewards within the specified interval, provided it is online long enough. The other 90% percent will be distributed based on the competition of computing power.  So when a miner becomes a masternode, it will get a basic reward based on the ranking of its service time , as well as deposits and TPS. Then, it can compete for the other 90% of mining rewards depending on its computing power.  The mystery numbers used for mining are generated by CPU-like/GPU-like algorithms.

4. We recommend deploying as much AI and CPU computing power as possible for external service, in order to get more shares of rewards. All computing power in the network will be pooled together. Any node sharing its computing power and get an assignment will get a specific amount of reward according to its sharing amount and total work.